Detective Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a sci-fi thriller
film called "Archive."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In 2038, a scientist named George Almore is
designated in Japan, working and living alone
in the middle of a forest at a massive Artisan
Robotics compound.
His only companions are his two robotic creations,
J1 and J2, who also serve as his helpers.
The second prototype, J2, watches her favorite
cartoon and tells George about a dream she
had of them driving a car.
She doesn’t remember much of the dream,
but she tells him that she felt sad when she
woke up.
J2 also informs him that someone wants to
talk to him.
George seems to know who she’s talking about.
Later that day, George talks to a woman named
Jules Almore, who happens to be his wife.
While they are having the conversation, Jules
has a hard expression on her face.
She tells him that she can’t talk to him
anymore, and she hopes that he’s happy there.
The signal weakens, and Jules bids him goodbye.
George remains baffled for a couple of minutes,
and then he suddenly finds himself in an autonomous
car with Jules.
They get into a playful mood, and Jules asks
him to set the car in self-driving mode.
George disapproves, saying that he doesn’t
trust the car’s automatic driving feature
since he didn’t design it.
Meanwhile, at present, George is on a call
with his boss, Simone.
She notices that it has been two years, and
he still hasn’t shown them anything except
for two unsuccessful robots, referring to
J1 and J2 as “two horrible things.”
She reminds him that he only has three years
to develop and finish his research.
Simone ends the call by ordering George to
back up the system and secure the place.
After the call, George and J2 share their
sentiments towards his boss.
He tells J2 that it’s better if they limit
Simone’s knowledge about the two prototypes,
or else she’ll have them shut down.
J2 agrees and reassures J1 that she isn’t
horrible, contrary to what the boss said.
A little while later, George continues work
while a video memory of his wife plays in
the background.
He is working on another prototype, which
he names J3.
J3 looks vastly different from J1 and J2,
and she is the only one to have an actual
human form.
Unbeknownst to George, J2 peeks through his
laboratory to see what he is up to.
When George and J2 go out to fix their reception
system, he notices that J2 is unusually quiet.
She then asks him why he won’t let her help
him with his work, reminding him that they
used to be a team.
George reassures her that he’s not replacing
her with the new prototype.
J2 still feels unsure, seeing that the new
robot is similar to her but only better.
However, she notices a pattern and realizes
that she’s better when compared to her sister,
J1.
George tries to escape the conversation and
orders J2 to get back to the house since it’s
cold outside and the prototype might get wet.
George returns to his station to continue
assembling his third prototype.
He successfully installs the artificial intelligence
into her brain, but her system cannot fully
process it yet as she is suddenly able to
recollect Jules’s memories as well.
George comforts her and puts her into hibernation
to adjust and help her feel better once she
wakes up.
When George heads out the next morning, he’s
surprised to see a dog at their entrance.
He sends the dog away and voice commands their
system to shut the entrance.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t work.
J2 pretends that she knows nothing about it,
but she seems delighted when George asks for
her help.
George and J2 are fixing the system outside
when a vehicle stops.
Mr. Sinclair and Mr. Melvin, who are representatives
of the Archive company, approach them.
George immediately commands J1 and J2 to stay
in their station until the visitors are gone.
The two have come to inform George that they
received the notifications of his wife’s
transition to somnolence.
They also want to check the condition of the
archive machine for their client, George’s
remaining optimal usage.
Mr. Sinclair casually talks to him, but George
seems distracted by Mr. Melvin’s operation
on the machine.
Mr. Melvin finds out that someone patched
the security seals and the environmental systems
of the unit, but George reluctantly denies
it and asks him to recheck the system for
errors.
Mr. Melvin grows suspicious and reminds George
that the home use of the archive legally constitutes
storage of the deceased user's remains.
Once it is used for personal reasons, they
have a legal obligation to remove the unit
and prepare it for burial.
George causes an outburst as he doesn’t
want his wife to leave yet.
However, Mr. Melvin warns him that they are
obliged to act under the Post Death Internment
Act with force if they find out that he acting
against the rules.
George claims that he has never done anything
wrong and that the archive company can't do
anything because they don't have proof.
When they leave, George knows they'll quickly
find evidence, so he works around the clock
to finish J3.
George returns to his station to examine J3’s
condition.
He puts off the hibernation mode and brings
J3 back to her senses.
However, she seems upset and tired.
George comforts her and clarifies that he
did that to minimize her trauma before bringing
her back online.
She is confused as she cannot remember anything,
but George explains that her software is finding
patterns, and trying to piece things together.
He assures her that the process might not
be tidy, but it is working.
The following day, once J3 calms down, George
starts examining her taste buds by introducing
her to different flavors such as vanilla and
lime.
He also examines her memory by letting her
read different words.
He also takes her under the empathy test.
When J3 asks the point of the tests, George
simply responds that those tests will give
him a lot of information about her personality.
Suddenly, J3 notices the scar on George's
face, and he then reveals that he got it from
an accident.
After several more tests, George asks her
to keep talking so her throat won’t feel
numb and tight.
J3 then tells him that she has been dreaming
a lot lately, but she is not sure if it is
dreaming or remembering.
Eventually, J1 walks in and introduces herself
to J3.
George informs her that J1 has problems with
her mobility and that he didn’t have enough
time back then to fabricate her any arms,
which makes J3 ask if he is going to finish
her.
He replies that he is working on it, and hopefully,
she will be fully independent.
He also shows J3 their cognitive ability and
reveals that J1 stopped developing at age
five to six.
He then used it as a template for version
two, which is J2, and her brain stopped developing
around fifteen to sixteen years old.
Then, he shows her a fully functional brain
figure which is hers, unaware that J2 is watching
them in the CCTV, witnessing everything, including
the revelations she never knew.
A feeling of envy takes over her, encouraging
her to potentially sabotage J3.
One night, while George is sleeping, J2 destroys
the devices in the basement.
At the same time, George seems to be remembering
his wife in his dreams.
George shares a piece of good news with Jules,
telling her that his company is offering him
a three-year contract job, where he would
do three years of solid research with a deliverable
prototype at its end.
Jules seems very happy, congratulating him,
and keeps on telling him that she is so proud
of him.
However, George also tells him that he would
be in Japan if he accepts the offer, and Jules
seems surprised about it, then suddenly there
is an awkward silence between them.
George assures Jules that he will not take
it if she doesn't want him to, but there’s
still tension in the air.
All of a sudden, a car appears and crashes
straight into them, leading to a vehicular
accident.
George wakes up from the nightmare by the
loud alarm in his station.
He finds their window shattered, and J3 is
missing.
His first thought is that someone might have
stolen her, so he sneaks into the basement
and looks for her.
The next day, George still can't find J3,
but he doesn't give up.
He scours the entire forest with two aerial
searching devices but finds nothing.
Then suddenly, Jules appears.
They have an essential conversation about
the new technology, called archive.
George explains to her that archived clients
can expect up to 200 hours of face-to-face
interaction with the deceased loved one.s
She asks why he wants to talk to a dead person,
and he replies so that he can say goodbye
properly.
He then adds that he misses her.
However, Jules seems to disagree, stating
that she doesn’t want to be trapped dead
in a machine.
Jules disappears, and George still can't find
J3.
George returns to the base in the late afternoon.
As he opens a drawer to look for another searching
device, J3 falls onto him, appearing weak
and frail, and calls him a monster.
It takes him a while to calm her down, but
he does his best to explain to J3 what is
going on to gain her trust again.
He tells her that he has data that the computer
managed to pull out of the archives.
However, it never managed to connect to a
computer before.
He explains that J3's brain is not a computer,
but there is a biochemical element in it which
he could extract an analog signal from and
put it into a piece of pattern recognition
software.
After one year of trials, he finally saw Jules'
signals.
He then created a personality template and
then started creating a physical version,
which resulted in J1, then J2, now J3.
He assures her that he won’t make a fourth
prototype.
After talking for a while, he discovers that
J2 secretly brought J3 into the documents
room the night before.
J2 even told her that she will be George's
wife's replacement in the future and that
George will manufacture more advanced robots
to replace her, just as J3 has now replaced
J2.
In the end, J2 locks her in the drawer.
After knowing J3’s side, George now confronts
J2, who is feeling guilty and sorry.
J2 explains that she only wants J3 to know
the truth and not hurt his feelings, but George
is so enraged that he turns off J2 and leaves.
George receives a call from Simone, telling
him that the archive company wants to talk
to him about his wife.
The company suspects that he based the two
robots on their archive technology and that
they want to take a good closer look at the
two inventions.
Simone assures him that their research is
confidential.
However, the company is still threatening
legal actions against him.
She also informs him that their lawyers are
looking into the case against George since
he breached his confidentiality agreement
by letting outsiders into the house, which
might be grounds for termination.
A few days later, George visits J2 in her
station.
J2 notices something is not right with her
legs and suspects that he gave it to J3.
George denies it and tells J2 that there was
technology in there that is essential for
his work.
On the days that J2 was shut down, George
was actually working on completing the third
prototype, where he dismantled J2's legs and
modified them to be better.
Once they were improved, he gave them to J3
and coated her body with a white skin-like
medium.
J3 now has a complete human form; on the other
hand, J2 feels depressed, used, and worthless.
She occasionally visits the waterfalls and
takes long walks, causing it to lose its power
and eventually shut down.
Fortunately, J1 is there to inform George
about what happened to J2.
But when he examines J2, he sees no damage.
J2 tells him that having no physical damage
doesn’t mean that she’s okay.
Feeling annoyed, George leaves and tells her
that they should talk once J2 is less dramatic.
George continues hanging out with J3, and
they seem to have a good time as they are
laughing and dancing together.
On the other hand, J2 peeks through the wall
and sees their love growing stronger, a sight
which she could not bear anymore.
Feeling hopeless and worthless, she goes to
J1 and pats her as if she is saying goodbye
for the last time.
She even leaves a goodbye letter.
She goes outside in the middle of terrible
weather, then suddenly, she is in front of
the lake.
She heads down and slowly approaches the water,
causing self-damage and losing its signals
until she is completely soaked.
George impatiently searches everywhere until
the computer announces that it lost its connection
with J2 as well.
He almost collapses with the loss.
Even though he cannot find her body, he buries
J2’s things and holds a funeral for her
in the evening.
That night, J3 has a breakthrough because
she is given a portion of Jules' memory data
to feel the love between Jules and George.
J3 lays on George's bed, and George mistakes
her for Jules, so he kisses her, but when
he opens his eyes, he sees the person in front
of him as J3, so he kicks her out.
The following day, George continues finishing
his final touches with J3.
While J3 is unconscious, flashes of Jules’s
memories keep appearing in her mind, such
as memories from a car accident, where a police
officer announces it needed one archive machine
for a deceased person.
J3 also recalls Jules being pregnant.
Later that day, Simone angrily calls George.
It turns out that the archive company discovered
J2 at the bottom of the lake, which is proof
that George stole the company's data.
Simone decides to fire George right away while
George turns off all of the base's systems.
Because J3 believes Simone is the bad guy,
she smashes the screen with the thought of
helping George.
While he is away, J3 takes the call from Jules
in the archive machine and says he cannot
come to the phone right now and that she will
take care of him once Jules is completely
gone.
On the other line, Jules seems so confused
as she doesn’t understand what J3 is trying
to say, but what J3 meant is when Jules' archive
expires.
George comes back, and he gets the phone from
J3 and says he cannot explain everything right
now, but he reassures her that he will see
her very soon.
Then, the call ends.
J3 is astonished by what she has heard, and
it makes sense to her now that George is going
to put Jules' archive into her.
Finally, George discloses J3 that he intends
to erase her consciousness and replace it
with Jules's.
He tells her that it is the only way.
J3, like any other living being, does not
wish to die and out of frustration, she yells
at him that Jules is already dead.
Suddenly, she breaks down and gets the gun
from a case.
She points it at him to interrogate him more
about what is really happening and what the
archive company wants.
He says they want to examine her and look
further at what he has already done.
She is perplexed as to how she suddenly has
all of this knowledge.
While feeling hopeless, J3 tells him that
she never stood a chance.
George apologizes, saying that he built J3
because it is his fault why Jules is dead
and that he built her so they could have a
life like they are supposed to have together.
In this instance, J3 becomes aware that George
is dead and is fading within the archive.
It is that aspect of George's consciousness
that refuses to vanish.
J3 wishes for George's consciousness to depart
in the belief that he ends up happily with
Jules that is why J3 finally gives George
the consent to put the archive into her, which
he immediately does since there’s no more
time left.
After a short coma, J3 regains consciousness
and acts as if she is now Jules.
George is delighted for a moment until the
phone rings.
The company's recovery team, which is on its
way to retrieve George and his robots, after
he chose to run his secret sub-project, mysteriously
vanishes.
Regardless of how hard his subconscious tries
to keep him from confronting the truth about
his death, George eventually walks toward
the ringing phone which J3 warns him not to
pick up because the truth is bitter.
Still, he picks up the phone and hears Jules’
voice.
She bursts into tears and tells George that
the archive company people told her that his
consciousness is about to vanish completely,
maybe this is the last time she could call
him.
George realizes he's been dead, and Jules
is making his final call before he fades.
She summons the courage to convince their
daughter to speak with George and exchange
their final farewells.
George's eyes well up with tears as he confronts
the truth and he eventually vanishes.
Jules eventually hangs up the phone and walks
away while carrying their young child.